# AWS S3 (Simple Storage Service)

Whenever we are workigng with any cloud provider we are in need of a place
for `object-storage`. We might need to store different kinds of multi-media 
assets like videos, images etc.

## How does s3 work ?

- In an AWS account you can have only upto 100 buckets
- Bucket sizes do not have an official limit. Object size limit is set to 
5TB maximum.
- Every type of data is supported in this storage service.
- s3 bucket names are globally unique (like usernames and domain names)
This is because for accessing objects within the bucket, AWS generates unique 
domain names. For example :
```
Bucket Name : riteshkoushikdev
Item Stored : ProfilePhoto.jpeg
URL : https://riteshkoushikdev.s3.ap-south-1.amazonaws.com/ProfilePhoto.jpeg

(Will not be accessible if public access is denied)
```
- By default buckets are extremely secure because they have blocks on 
  public access.
- However if you give public access that is not enough to access the 
  objects stored inside the bucket. You need something called as bucket policy.
- Basically, you need to define read/write and other access to the public as 
  bucket policies.

> NOTE : One does not remember bucket policies, just refer the docs.

- Bucket versioning is a VCS for buckets. (This does add to your cost)
- You can directly upload files to s3
- You can create folders on the s3 online console.
- The filepath : "/path/to/file" is what we call as `key`

## Static Hosting on Buckets


## Public and Private Buckets
- In public buckets you can directly access the objects placed inside the 
bucket using URLs like :
```
https://bucket-name.aws-region-specific-domain.com/key/to/object
```
- In private buckets, while these URLs exist, they throw `Access Denied` when 
you try to access resources through them. But in your AWS Management console
if you click on the object stored inside the s3 bucket you will see a 
"Open" button at the top-right corner of your screen.
- On clicking this button a new URL is generated which allows you to see the 
object that you have stored in the bucket. This is called as `pre-signed URL`
- If you observe the URL closely then you will notice that the URL contains 
a `token` and a `signature` 
- Now the question is how to generate this - token and signature ?
